Last time, on Enterprise.
There's nothing left.
- No buildings, no trees, no people.
- That's impossible.
There were 3,600 colonists.
The mission's been cancelled.
I can't believe you're letting them
do this to us.
You've waited all your life
to command this ship.
History never recorded the disaster.
Someone violated the Temporal Accord.
Someone who doesn't want
your mission to succeed.
Are you telling me that
Enterprise didn't cause that explosion?
He brought me back 10 months.
But I knew everything I know now.
How is that possible?
The Suliban destroyed that colony.
We're going back to get proof.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Have your ships bring me Archer.
Captain Archer
is no longer aboard Enterprise.
I thought he was smarter than this.
He could have saved all your lives.
It's targeting our warp core.
You're in the 31st century, Captain.
If bringing me here caused this,
then send me back.
I'll take my chances with Silik.
You don't understand.
The time portals have been destroyed.
Everything's been destroyed.
There's no way to send you back.
And now, the conclusion.
He's not on board.
You must have sensors
that can confirm that.
You've lied to me before.
If you don't tell me where he is,
I'll have no alternative but to...
Come see for yourself,
or send your soldiers.
You'll realise I'm telling the truth.
Drop out of warp
and prepare to be boarded.
Security teams
to Docking Ports 1, 2, and 3.
This is Sub-Commander T'Pol.
All security teams
remain where you are.
Are you crazy?
How do we know how many Suliban
are coming aboard?
They could try to take over the ship.
There are 30 armed vessels
surrounding us.
Unless I'm mistaken, their weapons
are still targeting our warp core.
Mr. Reed?
So unless you have
a better suggestion...
It's been a long road
Gettin' from there to here
It's been a long time
But my time is finally near
And I will see my dream
Come alive at last
I will touch the sky
And they're not gonna
Hold me down no more
No, they're not gonna change my mind
'Cause I've got faith of the heart
I'm going where my heart will take me
I've got faith to believe
I can do anything
I've got strength of the soul
And no one's gonna bend or break me
I can reach any star
I've got faith
Faith of the heart
If this place was destroyed as long ago
as it seems to have been...
then what are you doing here?
You and your watchdog buddies
don't fit in with all this.
You're thinking of time travel
like we're in an H.G. Wells novel.
We're not. It's far more complicated.
- There's no way for you to understand.
- Try me.
Listen, I realise your little utopia
is gone, and I sympathise.
But if you're telling me the truth...
if you've brought me 800 years
into the future, into this future...
- I think I deserve some answers.
- I don't have any answers.
And you're right, I shouldn't be here.
Which means you shouldn't
be here, either. But you are.
We are.
We brought you here
to protect the timeline.
We did quite a job.
- What's wrong?
- It's gone.
- What's gone?
- The monument.
It was right here.
On the same street as the library.
- It was obviously never built.
- Why is that a problem?
- Who did it commemorate?
- Not "who."
- Then what?
- An organisation. The Federation.
It doesn't exist for you, not yet.
But it will?
Fine. Keep your missing monument
to yourself.
Where's this library
you're talking about?
It should be right down there,
if it was ever built.
And even if it was, it'll be of no help.
All the data's stored electronically.
Books, made with paper.
There aren't supposed
to be books here.
Well, there are.
So I suggest we use some of them
to figure out what you did...
to the last thousand years
when you brought me here this morning.
- They haven't been duplicated.
- Is he correct?
- Don't you believe your scanners?
- We didn't have time to make a copy.
- Leave her alone!
Lower your weapon.
If we find Captain Archer
aboard this vessel...
you'll all be punished for lying to me.
He's not here, unless he's dead.
But we did find this.
- Where?
- In that lift.
It's an hour old, maybe two.
When I saw him last,
your Captain spoke of...
a Temporal Cold War.
What was he talking about?
Captain Archer believed Crewman
Daniels was from the future.
But if I recall, you killed him.
- What else?
- Nothing else.
There's a temporal signature
in your turbolift.
What do you know of that?
The last time we saw Captain Archer,
he was entering that turbolift.
Perhaps you haven't been lying to me.
You, shut down all com systems
and computer terminals...
with the exception
of Engineering and the Bridge.
Confine all of them to their quarters.
If anyone resists...
Understood.
Under the circumstances...
it would be best to do
what he says, Commander.
- They're three days overdue.
- I told you, Ambassador.
Archer said he was returning
with proof...
that they weren't responsible
for the tragedy on Paraagan II.
You also told me Starfleet
had ordered him to deliver...
Sub-Commander T'Pol and his
medical officer to the Vulcan ship D'kyr.
- They're three days overdue.
- The D'kyr has long-range sensors.
Have they detected Enterprise?
Captain Archer's negligence...
caused the death of 3,000 colonists.
Your superiors instructed them
to return to Earth.
Their mission is over. They haven't
followed those instructions.
You didn't answer
the Commander's question.
Has your ship detected Enterprise?
The D'kyr said they were joined
by a number of other vessels.
- They're no longer within sensor range.
- What kind of vessels?
They were at too great a distance
to identify.
Enterprise has ignored our hails
and defied Starfleet's orders.
I have no choice
but to send the D'kyr in pursuit.
- Jonathan Archer doesn't report to you.
- No, he doesn't.
But Sub-Commander T'Pol does.
And since she would never comply
with his present actions...
I have to conclude that
she's being held against her will.
I know you don't think much
of Archer, Ambassador...
but he is not in the habit
of kidnapping Vulcans!
Fine.
You send your ship.
Whatever Archer's up to,
I'm sure he's got a good reason.
He knows what he's doing.
Does he really?
Have you cycled through
the sub-temporal harmonics?
He's never failed to respond before.
Perhaps he's angry
that we didn't return with Archer.
Archer wasn't on Enterprise.
Why isn't he responding?
I need instructions.
He said to destroy Enterprise
if we couldn't bring him Archer.
We should tow them out of the nebula
and do it now.
The temporal signature,
it changes everything.
If Archer was pulled through time,
we need new instructions.
Where is he?
If he's angry with you,
you'll be punished again.
We should destroy Enterprise.
Have the surgeons prepare.
Then bring me the Vulcan.
I haven't found a single reference
to this Federation you talked about.
- I doubt you will.
- Because that monument wasn't there?
Because you weren't there.
So I disappear one day,
and all history changes?
I've looked through
the 21st and 22nd centuries.
Everything looks right,
up until the Warp 5 program.
After that, nothing looks right.
There were a lot of people involved
in the Warp 5 program.
We didn't bring a lot of people
here this morning. We just brought you.
"The Romulan Star Empire."
What's that?
Maybe you shouldn't be reading that.
I don't get it.
What could I have done
that could have been so important?
It wasn't just you.
It was events you helped set in motion.
This timeline,
the one you say no longer exists.
What can you tell me about it,
if my mission had continued?
It would have led to others.
And?
Okay.
What about this Federation?
Was Earth part of it? Was I part of it?
Silik wanted you, not the data disks.
The people he answered to
were more interested...
in capturing Jonathan Archer...
than in blaming Enterprise
for the destruction of the colony.
They obviously knew
what role you were going to play...
in the months or years to come.
By taking you away
from the 22nd century...
they caused exactly
what I was trying to prevent.
You've lost me.
The only chance I have
of restoring my century...
is by getting you back to yours.
Sounds like you've got
a chicken-or-the-egg problem.
You said your time portals are gone.
All your technology.
There isn't even electricity here.
You going to find a bicycle?
Turn it into a time machine?
Maybe we don't need a time machine.
Do you have your communicator?
- And my scanner.
- May I?
The people the Suliban were working
for came from about 300 years ago.
They couldn't travel through time,
but they did develop a way...
to send back images of themselves,
to communicate through time.
You can't do that with those.
No, it's a little bit more complicated,
but not much.
We learned how to do it in high school.
But we're going to need a few things
that might not be too easy to find.
What are we waiting for?
Where is Archer?
I don't know.
Who are you working with
from the future?
The Vulcan Science Directorate...
has determined that
time travel is impossible.
Does Captain Archer agree
with that opinion?
It's not an opinion.
Does Archer agree
with that determination?
Captain Archer believes Crewman
Daniels comes from the future.
But Daniels is dead.
Captain Archer claims he saw Daniels
two days ago.
Your captain is gone.
Did Daniels take him into the past
or the future?
The Vulcan Science Directorate...
has determined that
time travel is impossible.
I can't be sure, but I think that's copper.
Well done. I need you to unwrap it...
and pound it into small strips
no more than 1 mm thick.
Hello?
Please repeat. I can't understand.
I still can't understand you.
Try modulating the sub-carrier wave.
Malcolm, can you hear me?
Barely. You're going to need
to boost the signal.
- Any better?
- Yeah.
- I thought the com was offline.
- It is.
I'm routing the signal
through the EPS grid.
I can talk to any doorbell on B-Deck.
- Are you all right?
- Same as you, I guess.
- Locked in tight.
- And the others?
I can't get in contact with T'Pol
for some reason.
Hoshi and Travis are on C-Deck.
Any thoughts about how
we're gonna get rid of these Suliban?
One step at a time.
The first thing we need to do...
is figure out how to tap into
the door coms on C-Deck.
I'll get back to you. Sit tight.
I wasn't planning on going anywhere.
Any luck?
I still have the spatial coordinates
of Enterprise...
but without a quantum discriminator
it's going to be very tricky...
to contact the ship
on the same day you left.
I thought you built these things
in high school.
Where quantum discriminators
were on every desk.
Why is the same day so important?
What would be wrong with
making contact a week before I left...
or even a month before?
I made the biggest mistake
in the history of time travel this morning.
I don't intend to make it any worse.
This is Captain Archer.
Can you hear me?
T'Pol, this is Capt. Archer.
- I don't think it's working.
- I don't know where he is.
You don't know where who is?
Sub-Commander...
this is Captain Archer.
I'm having trouble understanding you.
Capt. Archer's gone.
A temporal reading in the turbolift.
I don't know where he is.
Daniels brought me to the future.
That's what the temporal reading
was all about.
Are you all right?
Science Vulcan Directorate
has determined that time travel is...
not fair.
Whatever you say.
Just tell me, are you all right?
- We're all confined to our quarters.
- Where are you?
I told you, in my quarters.
No, I mean, Enterprise.
Where's Enterprise?
There's a helix out my window.
T'Pol, listen to me. I need your help.
You're going to have to find a way
to get into Daniels' quarters.
Do you understand me?
You're on the ceiling.
Why aren't you on a monitor?
There's no technology where I am.
I thought you said
you were in the future.
Do you remember when I asked you
to keep an open mind?
- Yes.
- There's a lot more at stake here...
than bringing me back, or the mission.
I need you to listen to me very carefully.
I need you to trust me.
It won't work.
We can only access the decoupling pins
from outside our quarters.
So if we can't pick the locks...
what about the shafts
that house the EPS conduits?
They're adjacent to the air ducts.
They were pretty much blocked off
when the ship was completed.
It'd be too tight a squeeze.
- What's your definition of "too tight"?
- You or I couldn't get through them.
- Maybe a child or...
- Or Hoshi?
It's possible. But it would be difficult.
What do you say, Hoshi?
You willing to give it a try?
Isn't there some other way
that I can help out?
Something that needs translating?
You know how claustrophobic I am.
There's no one else that
can get through those crawl spaces.
Unless we can reach Crewman Naiman.
- She's pretty small.
- There's no time.
If this is going to work,
we need to begin now. Ensign Sato.
How far would I have to go
to get to the Doctor's quarters?
40 meters, maybe 45.
- Then how far to Lt. Reed's?
- It's not that far, Hoshi.
You can do it. We need you to do it.
- Hoshi?
- Good guess.
- How are you holding up?
- Great.
If you don't mind,
I'd just like to get this over with.
Good luck.
Whatever you're about to say,
I don't want to hear it.
Just get me a shirt.
Third dimension, timeline.
Timeline, first, second...
- What are you doing?
- First, third dimension.
Stand up, Vulcan. Up!
No!
No! Stop!
You certainly took your time.
- He had this pressed against my head.
- Had to be sure they were preoccupied.
You positive you're willing to do this?
It could get pretty ugly.
- I'm positive.
- You've got 30 minutes.
Good luck.
If they regain consciousness,
don't hesitate to use these.
- Don't worry.
- Let's go.
Did you think we wouldn't be watching
Daniels' quarters?
I guess I wasn't thinking.
I guess you weren't.
But you should be thinking now.
Thinking about what will happen to you
if you don't answer my questions.
Are you thinking about that, Lt. Reed?
Good. Now tell me what this is.
What does it do?
I don't know.
I don't know. Please!
- Yes?
- I was told to destroy it.
- I don't know what it does.
- Who told you to destroy it?
Captain Archer, before he left.
- He didn't want you to find it.
- And why would that be?
He thought you would use it
to contact someone.
I don't know who. I swear it.
Have the Lieutenant returned
to his quarters.
Ready.
Engineering, how did this happen?
Engineering!
What is it?
The antimatter stream
has been compromised.
- Shut down the warp reactor.
- Our engineers aren't responding.
- I've sent soldiers.
- Keep me informed.
Yes?
These humans are greater fools
than I thought.
They'd rather commit mass suicide
than submit to us.
- Did you correct the problem?
- It's too late.
The reactor's going to breach.
We can't endanger the helix.
Evacuate your soldiers and have
Enterprise towed out of the nebula.
There's very little time.
Will you alert the tractor teams?
You do it. I'm busy.
Is that you? Can you hear me?
- Report, Ensign.
- Antimatter stream's back to normal.
You may have overdone
your pyrotechnic display.
The scorching on the starboard nacelle
is extensive.
I'll try to remember that next time
we have to fake a reactor breach.
Cell Ships, 30 of them.
Thirty-five approaching at high warp.
Maintain your course
and speed, Ensign.
I've tried to reach you.
I've tried for two days.
I did what you told me
but Archer wasn't on Enterprise.
There was some kind
of temporal signature.
I need instructions.
I don't know how to operate this device.
I need your help.
I hear you, but I don't understand.
Repeat what you said.
Please repeat what you said!
I said, you're an ugly bastard.
You try shape-shifting on me, or pulling
one of your chameleon routines...
and I promise you, Silik,
I'll blow your head off.
Has Enterprise left the nebula?
Can you see? I've brought you Archer!
He's here, Archer's here!
- There's no need to punish me.
- Where's my ship, Silik?
They've left. They're gone.
How many Cell Ships
did you send after them? Silik!
- I don't know, 20, 30.
- You're going to call them off...
and then you're going to give me
those data disks back. Now get up.
- My soldiers won't let you leave.
- Shut up.
Get going.
- Hoshi, any sign of the Vulcan ship?
- Not yet.
Hull plating
on the port-aft quarter's down.
Alter course 10 degrees starboard.
They're closing.
The lead ships are overtaking us.
Port hull plating's down.
Ventral plating as well.
- Why'd they stop firing?
- Why waste ammunition?
They have us surrounded.
Are long-range sensors
still operational?
No Vulcan ship.
- Sub-Commander?
- I see them.
Son of a bitch! He did it.
One Cell Ship, approaching aft.
Stand down weapons.
Open a channel.
Enterprise to Suliban vessel.
Go ahead, Enterprise.
- Good to hear your voice, Captain.
- Good to hear yours, too.
I feel like I've been away
for a thousand years.
Is everyone all right?
Lt. Reed suffered some minor injuries,
but he's recovering in Sickbay.
Captain, I'm curious.
Why didn't the other Cell Ships
try to stop you?
I know it's not standard
Starfleet procedure...
but I took a hostage.
By the time he wakes up,
we'll be long gone.
Request permission to dock.
Permission granted.
Captain's Starlog, supplemental.
We've joined the Vulcan ship, D'kyr.
It seems that Starfleet
and the High Command...
are eager to discuss
the future of our mission.
While your explanation
of how you obtained these disks...
is somewhat implausible, it's obvious
that Enterprise was not responsible...
for the destruction of the colony.
It may seem somewhat implausible
to you but...
Please allow me to finish, Captain.
In less than a single Earth year...
you've engaged in armed conflicts
with over a dozen species.
You've escalated the conflict
between my people and the Andorians...
which included the destruction
of one of our most sacred monasteries.
You helped 89 Suliban
escape from detention.
You may claim to be
on a mission of exploration.
I, however, consider you reckless
and irresponsible.
A danger to the Quadrant.
Regardless of the evidence
presented here...
I plan to advise
the Vulcan High Command...
not to change its recommendation
to Starfleet.
Enterprise should be recalled.
You guys have wanted to scrub
this mission from day one!
We proved to you that
we didn't kill those 3,600 people...
but you don't want to hear it!
- You're pathetic!
- That's enough, Commander.
No one's more pleased than I am...
that Enterprise wasn't responsible
for the tragedy.
But Ambassador Soval's argument
may be valid.
Starfleet Command
has a difficult decision to make here.
When I was in my early 20s
on a trip to East Africa...
I saw a gazelle giving birth.
It was truly amazing.
Within minutes,
the baby was standing up on its own.
A few more minutes, and it was walking.
Before I knew it...
it was running alongside its mother,
moving away with the herd.
Humans aren't like that, Ambassador.
We may come from the same planet
as those gazelles...
but we're pretty much helpless
when we're born.
It takes us months
before we're able to crawl...
almost a full year before we can walk.
Our deep-space mission
isn't much different.
We're going to stumble,
make mistakes, I'm sure...
more than a few,
before we find our footing.
But we're going to learn
from those mistakes.
That's what being human is all about.
I'm sorry you can't see that.
Your analogy
is very colourful, Captain...
but I question whether it addresses
the consequences of your actions.
The concept of learning from
one's mistakes shouldn't be difficult...
for a Vulcan of your wisdom
to understand, Ambassador.
Our ancestors...
discovered how to suppress
their volatile emotions...
only after centuries of savage conflict.
You spoke of the destruction
of the monastery.
What about the Vulcan listening post
that Captain Archer found there?
I would hope that our people...
have learned from those events,
that using a sacred sanctuary...
to spy on others...
was a dishonourable practice,
to say the least.
I don't wish
to contradict Captain Archer...
but learning from one's mistakes
is hardly exclusive to humans.
Their mission should be allowed
to continue.
The Command Council
will review the evidence...
and listen to what's been said
here today.
I'm sure they'll hear
from the Vulcans, as well.
I'll let you know
as soon as there's a decision.
Good luck, Jonathan.
All of you.
Come in.
I can't be certain, but Crewman Fuller
might have seen me coming in here.
She tends to be discreet.
What can I do for you?
I think you put it over the top.
Forrest said
the others couldn't believe it...
when you went to bat for us,
not to mention that...
- listening post lecture you gave Soval.
- You spoke to the Admiral?
He woke me up in the middle
of the night. Can you believe that?
I assume with good news.
I think you put it over the top.
- I still don't believe in time travel.
- The hell you don't.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org